README.md, before:

## Impressions of Task 1

1. The course on Udacity gave a firm understanding of basic Git functionality. It is perfect for
   beginners, since it makes sure everything is clear for you via practice tasks, quizes and reflections.
2. [learngitbranching.js.org](http://learngitbranching.js.org) (followed from [try.github.io](http://try.github.io))
   puts acquired knowledge to the test, and teaches some extra commands and techniques as well.
   Visualisations are great, but the only flaw is that I couldn't access from the menu levels
   starting from "remote" section.

Now I can hopefully say that I've learnt how to use Git.


## Linux CLI, and HTTP
[finished](task_linux_cli/finished.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. I had known some command before, but the course helped me learn some other useful ones
      and get it all ingrained im my mind.
   2. Every time it came to networks, I used to get lost. Now I've got a more clear understanding
      of how the HTTP protocol works and how clients and servers communicate.
   3. How authentication and caching are performed.
2. *what surprised you*
   1. Command line has its own text editor!
   2. I had never invegtigated status code meanings, so I was quite impressed when saw them all.
   3. There is so much detail about caching.
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. Hohestly, I don't think I'll use the command line in everyday life, but when working in git,
      for example, why not. Besides, bash scripting and modifying environment seem redundant.
   2. In a project that needs to exchange data between hosts.
   3. In a big project that requires traffic optimisations or tracking individual users.


## Git Collaboration
[lesson 1](task_git_collaboration/ud123.png) |
[lesson 2](task_git_collaboration/ud456.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. Although I've finished a Git/Github course for Task 1, I learnt something from this course.
      Such as numerous flags for git log, or the .gitignore file.
   2. I got lots of advices about collaborating via Github.
2. *what surprised you*
   1. git log is powerful!
   2. Communicating with other developers turns out to be kinda complicated...
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. Everything. It is basic Git functionality.
   2. I will push my own works to remotes on Github, and, when the time comes, will send/manage
      pull requests on larger projects, as well as interact with other developers.


## Intro to HTML and CSS
[Udacity](task_html_css_intro/ud001.png) |
[HTML](task_html_css_intro/html.png) |
[CSS](task_html_css_intro/css.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. Although I have experience with HTML, I've never used such tags as `<del>`, `<ins>`, `<mark>` or
      definition list.
   2. In CSS, the formula for calculating specificity.
2. *what surprised you*
   1. `<i>` and `<b>` have semantic definition!
   2. In the very first CSS task on HTMLAcademy, they used `border-bottom` to draw a triangle!
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. It is all very basic, so I'll sure use everything.
   2. Same. And especially helpful is knowing how cascading works.


## Responsive Web Design
[Udacity](task_responsive_web_design/ud893.png) |
[Flexbox Froggy](task_responsive_web_design/flexboxfroggy.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. I've never approached responsive design properly, and now I finally know some common principles,
      such as major/minor breakpoints for different screen sizes, making certain types of elements
      responsive, conventional page layouts etc.
   2. I've played Flexbox Froggy before (recompleted it anyways), so nothing new :)
2. *what surprised you*
   1. Designing responsively doesn't look that hard once I know how to approach it.
   2. I was surprised how many tasks can be solved with ease using flexes.
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. From now on I'll develop every serious website with responsiveness in mind.
   2. Flexes are incredibly powerful, I love them!

## JS Basics
[Udacity](task_js_basics/ud803.png) |
[freeCodeCamp](task_js_basics/freeCodeCamp.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. I knew JS before this task, so nothing new. However, it was useful to revise hoisting,
      global/function/block scopes, function expressions/declarations etc.
   2. Those tasks didn't take me too long to solve, but two of them simply couldn't run in the
      tester (whereas in console it all worked fine). Anyway, I had fun pushing my skills to the limit!
2. *what surprised you*
   1. With `&&` and `||` one of the operands sometimes isn't even checked! That's an interesting
      mechanic I never paid attention to.
   2. With `RegExp` it is so much easier to work with strings!
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. The only unclear thing is named function expressions. I mean, they do nothing, why use them?
      Other than that, JS basics are a must-know.
   2. I'll probably come back to these algorythmic tasks, they are kinda fun and feel good to solve.

## DOM
[Udacity](task_js_dom/ud117.png) |
[freeCodeCamp](task_js_dom/freeCodeCamp.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. Interfaces, event loop, event phases, event delegation, reflow & repaint, DocumentFragment.
2. *what surprised you*
   1. I used to believe I know DOM... And made so many discoveries in one day! Furthermore, there
      are hundreds of interfaces, events properties and methods, all with their unique subtleties -
      excited to work with that!
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. Now I know how to minimise reflows, optimise event handlers, prevent page freezing with
      setTimeout() - I am in deep awe!

## A Tiny JS World
1. *what was new to you*
   1. `Proxy` object is used to define custom behavior for basic operations like assignment.
2. *what surprised you*
   1. I spent more time uploading my project to Github than actually working on it... Aside from
      `Proxy`, nothing really shocking.
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. Objects are a fundamental way of modelling complex systems, I'll work with them for sure.

Commit message:

Add links to practice tasks for DOM and A tiny JS world

README.md, after:

## Impressions of Task 1

1. The course on Udacity gave a firm understanding of basic Git functionality. It is perfect for
   beginners, since it makes sure everything is clear for you via practice tasks, quizes and reflections.
2. [learngitbranching.js.org](http://learngitbranching.js.org) (followed from [try.github.io](http://try.github.io))
   puts acquired knowledge to the test, and teaches some extra commands and techniques as well.
   Visualisations are great, but the only flaw is that I couldn't access from the menu levels
   starting from "remote" section.

Now I can hopefully say that I've learnt how to use Git.


## Linux CLI, and HTTP
[finished](task_linux_cli/finished.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. I had known some command before, but the course helped me learn some other useful ones
      and get it all ingrained im my mind.
   2. Every time it came to networks, I used to get lost. Now I've got a more clear understanding
      of how the HTTP protocol works and how clients and servers communicate.
   3. How authentication and caching are performed.
2. *what surprised you*
   1. Command line has its own text editor!
   2. I had never invegtigated status code meanings, so I was quite impressed when saw them all.
   3. There is so much detail about caching.
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. Hohestly, I don't think I'll use the command line in everyday life, but when working in git,
      for example, why not. Besides, bash scripting and modifying environment seem redundant.
   2. In a project that needs to exchange data between hosts.
   3. In a big project that requires traffic optimisations or tracking individual users.


## Git Collaboration
[lesson 1](task_git_collaboration/ud123.png) |
[lesson 2](task_git_collaboration/ud456.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. Although I've finished a Git/Github course for Task 1, I learnt something from this course.
      Such as numerous flags for git log, or the .gitignore file.
   2. I got lots of advices about collaborating via Github.
2. *what surprised you*
   1. git log is powerful!
   2. Communicating with other developers turns out to be kinda complicated...
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. Everything. It is basic Git functionality.
   2. I will push my own works to remotes on Github, and, when the time comes, will send/manage
      pull requests on larger projects, as well as interact with other developers.


## Intro to HTML and CSS
[Udacity](task_html_css_intro/ud001.png) |
[HTML](task_html_css_intro/html.png) |
[CSS](task_html_css_intro/css.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. Although I have experience with HTML, I've never used such tags as `<del>`, `<ins>`, `<mark>` or
      definition list.
   2. In CSS, the formula for calculating specificity.
2. *what surprised you*
   1. `<i>` and `<b>` have semantic definition!
   2. In the very first CSS task on HTMLAcademy, they used `border-bottom` to draw a triangle!
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. It is all very basic, so I'll sure use everything.
   2. Same. And especially helpful is knowing how cascading works.


## Responsive Web Design
[Udacity](task_responsive_web_design/ud893.png) |
[Flexbox Froggy](task_responsive_web_design/flexboxfroggy.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. I've never approached responsive design properly, and now I finally know some common principles,
      such as major/minor breakpoints for different screen sizes, making certain types of elements
      responsive, conventional page layouts etc.
   2. I've played Flexbox Froggy before (recompleted it anyways), so nothing new :)
2. *what surprised you*
   1. Designing responsively doesn't look that hard once I know how to approach it.
   2. I was surprised how many tasks can be solved with ease using flexes.
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. From now on I'll develop every serious website with responsiveness in mind.
   2. Flexes are incredibly powerful, I love them!

## JS Basics
[Udacity](task_js_basics/ud803.png) |
[freeCodeCamp](task_js_basics/freeCodeCamp.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. I knew JS before this task, so nothing new. However, it was useful to revise hoisting,
      global/function/block scopes, function expressions/declarations etc.
   2. Those tasks didn't take me too long to solve, but two of them simply couldn't run in the
      tester (whereas in console it all worked fine). Anyway, I had fun pushing my skills to the limit!
2. *what surprised you*
   1. With `&&` and `||` one of the operands sometimes isn't even checked! That's an interesting
      mechanic I never paid attention to.
   2. With `RegExp` it is so much easier to work with strings!
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. The only unclear thing is named function expressions. I mean, they do nothing, why use them?
      Other than that, JS basics are a must-know.
   2. I'll probably come back to these algorythmic tasks, they are kinda fun and feel good to solve.

## DOM
Practice: [Demo](https://vv2529.github.io/gh-pages-js-dom) |
[Code base](https://github.com/vv2529/kottans-frontend/tree/master/task_js_dom/js-dom)

Reviewed and approved by @AMashoshyna

[Udacity](task_js_dom/ud117.png) |
[freeCodeCamp](task_js_dom/freeCodeCamp.png)
1. *what was new to you*
   1. Interfaces, event loop, event phases, event delegation, reflow & repaint, DocumentFragment.
2. *what surprised you*
   1. I used to believe I know DOM... And made so many discoveries in one day! Furthermore, there
      are hundreds of interfaces, events properties and methods, all with their unique subtleties -
      excited to work with that!
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. Now I know how to minimise reflows, optimise event handlers, prevent page freezing with
      setTimeout() - I am in deep awe!

## A Tiny JS World
Practice: [Demo](https://vv2529.github.io/a-tiny-JS-world) |
[Code base](https://github.com/vv2529/a-tiny-JS-world)

Reviewed and approved by @OleksiyRudenko
1. *what was new to you*
   1. `Proxy` object is used to define custom behavior for basic operations like assignment.
2. *what surprised you*
   1. I spent more time uploading my project to Github than actually working on it... Aside from
      `Proxy`, nothing really shocking.
3. *what you intend to use in future*
   1. Objects are a fundamental way of modelling complex systems, I'll work with them for sure.
